---
layout: post
title: Monorepo - Shomonorepo 
date: 
tags: []
---

## I was scanning through my Twitter stream as one does and came across a tweet regarding monorepos by Phil Calcaldo. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Some people, when confronted with a handful of small problems, think &quot;I know, I&#39;ll use a monorepo.&quot; Now they have one BIG problem</p>&mdash; Phil Calçado (@pcalcado) <a href="https://twitter.com/pcalcado/status/707966299582943233">March 10, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

With my response being: 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/pcalcado">@pcalcado</a> Monorepo or not - if there are organizational problems (re: Conway&#39;s Law) no amount of repos (or tools) is going to fix them.</p>&mdash; Youssuf ElKalay (@buildscientist) <a href="https://twitter.com/buildscientist/status/708004475961606144">March 10, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


The concept of monorepos got me thinking that in most cases monorepos are inherently bad but there are use cases for them. First and foremost - what is a monorepo? 

Buildscientist's definition: A single code repository that contains any/all code/binaries related to a company/organization. 

I'm not going to go into technical details as to why a single source code repository could be bad - (read/write performance anyone?) but I will say that generally monorepos are a byproduct of how an organization is structured. 

Singular repositories are generally great for small organizations (less than 50 engineers) because at some point during the orgs inception someone decided to version control data and as the organization grew it became a cultural norm that this is how things are done. As the organization starts to grow/change so do its requirements and development practices. What happens when a new product development team wants to rapidly iterate over an idea but they're stuck dealing with a monorepo?  One could argue that could be said about a great deal of things (tools, application development stacks, database vendors) but I digress. 

There's been a big hullabaloo over microservices lately and while this post doesn't argue their merits or faults - I don't see why anyone would want to pack multiple microservices into one repository. 

I do on the other hand see how an engineer doesn't want to have to run around chasing down repo URL's just to get a working developer instance. Those of you who said "but but but thats what Docker is for" - please go away. 

Kidding of course - yes Docker is a solution but unless you're going to store source code in a Docker container as a developer it really isn't going to help. Having the binaries that make up a set of microservices in one container is handy but if I need to view source code of a set of microservices that isn't going to help. 

Wouldn't it be nice if I could create a monorepo that consists of multiple repos? What a novel concept! (Not really)

Both Git and Subversion support the concept of submodules and externals respectively. For the record I find the git implementation of submodules incredibly confusing. Either way I don't recommend using submodules/externals if you're planning on writing to those repositories. Still - having a monorepo that consists of purely submodules/externals is a very handy way of presenting a disparate set of repositories to a user. 

For example - a financial services application thats made up of a number of microservices might have a monorepo as follows: 

* Core Services Mono Repo 
 * Authentication Service
 * Check Processing Service
 * Account Validation Service 
 
 And so on. Each of these microservices might be owned by completely different teams - should I really have to hunt down 3 different URL's for these repositories? Granted - anytime these submodule URL's change someone is going to have to update them - but how often does repo url change? 



